in 2019 they found that physical therapy
is actually a very effective treatment
for low back pain what that means is
that flexing your muscles moving your
spine going through a full range of
motion in every direction
free
can actually mitigate or completely get
rid of your low back pain
follow along if you'd like or if you
just want to learn go ahead and learn if
you're following along we're going to
lay down first i always like to start
with a dynamic movement and today it's
going to be the pelvic curl so what you
do is you lift your pelvis in the air
and squish your low back down just like
this and then you reverse the movement
the opposite way and the goal is just to
do this until the spine feels warm so i
would say at least 10 times
and you want to work in a pain-free
range of motion the goal is not to feel
pain it's just to feel movement in the
spine
there we go i'm gonna do it a few more
times
two
and one great job
lift yourself up and side stretch so for
this one all you're gonna do is lift up
and over and hold right here
keep both sides of your pelvis down on
the ground and your focus is not so much
on the upper body which you will feel
stretching is to feel it more down
toward the lower part of your spine
and the goal is around 30 seconds on
both sides
it doesn't have to be exactly 30 seconds
but close to 30 seconds is the goal
and here we go let's switch sides other
arm up and over and you may notice that
one side is tighter than the other
totally normal
it doesn't mean stretch more intensely
on the one side it just means that um
you can stretch for a little bit longer
on that side if you choose to do so
but i like to keep it as even as
possible
i also like to focus on breathing while
i do it
and go ahead and lift yourself up and we
have another dynamic one you just cross
your arms in front
you inhale lift and pause right here
we're gonna hold for ten
nine
eight
seven
six
five
four
three
two
one and back forward opposite direction
hold ten
nine
eight
seven
six
five
four
three
two
one and i always like to just go back
and forth after
all of these mobilization exercises can
be repeated more than once so you can
actually do that whole sequence over and
over again
and the more you do it the more blood
flow you're bringing to the spine
um and like i say in my other videos
motion is lotion so the more we move the
more synovial fluid we get flowing the
more blood flow the more healing the
less pain
never work through pain just go to the
range that you can do and i hope that
helps
stay flexy